Testing in The Age
of Generative AI
A practical guide to choosing the right
platform for AI-powered continuous testingGenerative AI is here and will
transform the way testing is done.

“Most teams utilize 5–10
disparate tools to test
different technologies
in an enterprise.”
GitLab’s 2022 DevSecOps Global Survey
For decades, testing leaders have
been striving to maximize automation
coverage to boost testing effectiveness
and ensure new features or changes
don't impact business operations.
Unfortunately, most testing is still
done manually, which is costly and
slow. Reliance on manual testing leads
to poor quality of production systems
and/or slower release cycles.
This is why testing is perceived
as the biggest bottleneck to delivering
value to customers.
Many testing vendors, perhaps the ones
you rely on, added new capabilities by
acquisition and are burdened with a
bucket of tools that are poorly integrated
with different architectures—requiring
customers to use different tools to test or
automate different technologies.
These piecemeal “platforms” are not
architected to infuse AI into their existing
capabilities and will impede their ability
to apply and react to new AI innovations.

Page 21
Why is now the time
to modernize? IDC Survey: What application
development process do you think
has the most potential to benefit
A recent IDC survey asked respondents which from Generative AI?
area of software delivery will benefit most from
Generative AI–testing takes the lead, followed
closely by security testing and code generation Prototyping 8.50%
(see IDC Survey diagram).
UI Design 9%
You now have the potential to achieve what was
once considered impossible: maximizing testing Writing code 18%
coverage, automating the majority of your testing
portfolio, and elevating each of your testers to
become the best tester they can be. Securiy Testing 21.50%

Efficient automated testing leads to faster release
cycles, reduced risk of production issues, and
ultimately faster time to deliver new customer
value in the form of software.
Software quality 22.50%
and testing
Source: IDC, Generative AI Offers Greatest Expected Developer Benefits to Software Quality and Testing
Followed by App Security Testing, Doc :# US50999823, June 2023

Page 31
Why is now the time
to modernize?

Ready to get going? Here are some questions to get you started. Customer Challenge

1 Does the platform meet your basic needs?
Does the platform cover the basics and provide the fundamental planning,
automation, execution, and analysis capabilities for your team’s unique needs? Cushman & Wakefield experienced
significant inefficiency and decreased
benefits from their extraction platform
2 Is the platform enterprise-ready? due to delayed release of new
Does the platform provide the enterprise capabilities to drive your scaling, features and frequent manual
reuse, compliance, and security needs?
regression testing.

3 Is the vendor an AI innovator?
Does the platform infuse AI and ML into their core capabilities with a security
layer along with a robust roadmap and vision for responsibility?

Page 4The Basics:
Can the platform meet your bottom-line needs?

Lifecycle and DevOps
tool integrations
Does the platform integrate with
your ALM, testing, continuous
integration, and the rest of
your DevOps toolchain?
Requirements
management
Does the platform support
creation or ingestion of
requirements, with full traceability
between defects, results, test
cases, and requirements?
Test case management
Does the platform provide
support for creating and managing
test cases, including the ability
to create logical test sets, order
test cases, and create
dynamic test sets?
SAP change
impact analysis
Is the platform certified for SAP?
Does it provide visualizations to
understand the quality of SAP?
Can testing be scoped to only test
around changes introduced?

Test automation for
all target software
Can the platform support every
technology under test, including
both what is being tested at
present and any technologies that
you plan to test in the future?
AI-assisted test
data generation
Does the platform
enable creation of synthetic
test data using AI to generate
more realistic data to test
every variation and edge case?
Unified automation
development environment
Does the platform support
both technical and business
testing roles with an IDE that
enables the creation of coded
or low-code automations that
can be used interchangeably?
AI object recognition
Does the platform include AI
capabilities with multi-anchor
unified targeting to reduce
maintenance and improve test
execution reliability?

Page 5Enterprise-Ready:
Will the platform scale to address your evolving needs?

Reliable execution
orchestration
Does the vendor provide the ability
to execute automations in parallel
with more advanced orchestration,
like triggers, schedules, and
CI/CD integrations?
Shareable
component library
and object repository
Can the automation components
in the platform be shared
in a library and used by other
departments or teams?
Third-party certifications
Does the vendor/platform have
certification that your organization
requires or prefers? (Inclusive
of partner endorsements, like
SAP, and official certifications,
like FedRamp)
Governance support
Does the platform meet your
governance criteria? Does it
include role-based permissions,
access control, coding standards,
and full audit trails?

Strong community
and training
Does the platform have a strong
user community? How many users
and customers are engaged?
Does the vendor offer any
complementary training?
Migration and
adoption services
Does the vendor offer competitive
migrations? Can they migrate
both test management and
automation assets? Can the
vendor provide references?
Cloud-first architecture
How often does the vendor
release features? Do they
offer on-premises or
hybrid options?
Marketplace with
prebuilt components
Does the vendor provide a
marketplace of prebuilt
components and accelerators? Are
there components available that
are relevant to your tech stack?

Page 6AI Innovator:
Is the vendor positioned to deliver AI features?

Test case generation
Does the vendor have working
software to generate step-by-step
test cases from requirements or
other source documents?
Test automation
generation
Does the vendor have working
software to generate code from
natural language comments, test
steps, or other source documents?
AI-assisted
results analysis
Does the vendor provide
the ability to leverage Gen AI
to assist in results analysis?
AI models
Can you host AI models
in the platform? Do they provide
templates? Can you bring
your own models?  Can they be
easily trained?

Ability to customize
AI/ML prompts
Does the vendor allow you to
customize any codified prompts so
that the prompt is more aligned to
your organization's approach?
Interactive prompts and
document ingestion
Does the vendor hard code
prompts and output? Or do
they allow you to freely interact
with any prompts and feed the
model any documents?
Dynamic AI
roadmap
Does the vendor have a
public roadmap that is
dynamic yet achievable?
Strategy for responsible AI
What is the vendor's approach to
safeguarding your proprietary data
and models? Do they provide
connectors for safely interfacing
with popular LLMs?

Page 7Does the platform and
vendor deliver results?

Ask for success Look at the vendor’s Investigate third-party
1 Reduced Risk? stories relevant to your track record for recommendations, analyst
Can the solution reduce the risk industry, domain, or delivering test features reports, partner network,
of introducing defects into technology under test on-time and in-scope and peer review sites
production? By how much?

2 Reduced Cost?
Does the solution reduce the cost
of testing? By how much?

3 Accelerated
Continuous Delivery?
Does the solution ultimately improve
time to market? How much faster?

Page 8UiPath supports
every testing role in a Analysts
Simplified acceptance testing
unified environment and empowered to create
low-code automations

UiPath Test Suite, powered by the UiPath Business
Automation Platform, provides an open, extensible
platform that offers a unified experience for continuous
testing with capabilities to assist every role.
Whether testing is your primary role, you’re
a developer who tests your code, or you’re
a business analyst who performs acceptance testing.
Testers
Efficiently plan, automate and
execute tests for new features
and software releases

Developers
Unit test software with
coded automations

Page 9Go beyond the basics
with the UiPath Platform

The UiPath Advantage:

Open & Extensible:
Integrate Test Suite with more than 50 connectors to
common lifecycle and DevOps tools, including Jira,
ServiceNow, Azure DevOps, SAP Solution Manager,
qTest, Micro Focus ALM, Jenkins, and more.

Unified Automation for All
With UiPath Studio, you can leverage a development IDE
that enables technical or business-oriented testers with
the choice of coded or low-code authoring. In addition,
UiPath provides AI-powered test data generation to
test every data variation.
Comprehensive Automation
UiPath enables automation of virtually any technology,
including desktop, mobile, web, RPA, API, SAP, Oracle,
and Workday, and provides AI computer vision to test
legacy, virtualized desktops, or intricate interfaces.
Unified
One IDE supports
every tester with coded
or low-code automation
Open and Extensible
Integrates into your DevOps
and ALM toolchain with
50+ connectors
Comprehensive
Automation
support for virtually
any technology

Page 10UiPath is enterprise-ready

Customer Solution Why do Fortune 500 companies like Cisco, NatWest, and VMware trust
UiPath for continuous testing? UiPath provides enterprise-grade
automation capabilities that the other test vendors cannot provide.

In partnership with Ashling
Partners, Cushman & Wakefield
deployed UiPath Test Suite to
automate the intensive test cases
needed to thoroughly test the
SaaS application.
Production-grade
automation
UiPath offers multiple identification
methods, including multi-anchor
unified targeting, a remote runtime
extension for external machines,
and AI Computer Vision to test
virtually any application in a single
end-to-end test scenario.​
Elastic orchestration
and IT automation
UiPath offers
‘orchestration-as-a-service’
either built-in via Automation
Cloud or via IT Automation
solution for customer-managed
deployments.​
FedRAMP Certified
UiPath is now trusted to
process data securely and
transparently for U.S. citizens
and U.S. government bodies.

Cloud-first
flexible architecture
UiPath products are built from the
ground-up by our product team of
over 500+ engineers. Any tools
obtained via acquisition are rebuilt
as part of the platform.
Vibrant Community
UiPath has an active
community of over 100,000
users, with a free community
edition and free training.
Migration Services
UiPath offers services
to migrate both test
management and automation
assets from any legacy
provider to accelerate
modernization of your team.

Page 11UiPath provides
practical and safe AI “TuringBots can help automate and
test smarter instead of
From the beginning, UiPath incorporated Specialized AI like hyperautomating all tests —
Computer Vision and Document Understanding. Now, it is set to offer increasing quality by automating
Generative AI features through UiPath Autopilot experiences and more with less effort.”
gateway connectors to well-known LLMs to support activities such as
synthetic test data generation and test generation. Forrester Research, The Future of TuringBots, 2023

The UiPath Advantage:

Safe AI:
UiPath provides a Trust Layer that
safeguards customer data as you
explore and adopt new Generative AI
experiences.
Flexible AI:
Bring your own ML models, use our out-
of-the-box models, or select third party
options. Regardless of which you choose,
you’ll be able to bring them into production
quickly and rapidly train them.
Dynamic Investment
and Roadmap:
Test Suite continues to deliver new AI
features with a vision of AI, progressing
from a reactive assistant to a trusted
partner that executes tests
autonomously.
Generative AI:
While some vendors are struggling to
deliver working AI, UiPath customers are
already using Autopilot .

Page 12Autopilot for
UiPath Test Suite
1. Plan with precision
Generate step-by-step manual
test cases from requirements
Autopilot is your and documentation.
partner for AI at Work

Try Autopilot Today

3. Answers without effort 2. Automate faster
Generate actionable reports from Generate automations
results and logs to understand from comments, test
what happened and, more steps, and documents.
importantly, why it happened.

Page 131
UiPath has a track record
of test success

The UiPath Advantage:

Improves Quality: Organization Synergy: Customer Outcomes
Maximized automation Enterprises that have
coverage and resilient execution standardized on UiPath for
leads to 60-80% fewer defects automation across test and
on average. automation COEs experience
50% less maintenance, decreased Cushman & Wakefield automated 95%
Unified Automation for All: training costs, and reduced of regression testing, significantly
Consolidation of tools and flexible upskilling costs, ultimately saving reducing the testing cycle time by
licensing result in 50% reduction in up to $4 million per year on 90%, allowing Cushman & Wakefield
costs on average. average. to accelerate the implementation of
Accelerates Automate Beyond Testing: their key strategic initiative.
Value Delivery: Best-in-class Process Mining,
Improved efficiency of automation Process Automation, Document
and precision execution drives an Processing, and Apps are now
average of 5-10X improvements in available for your organization.
release speed.

Page 14Discover why UiPath
Test Suite is the best
choice for your team

UiPath is the only testing platform that offers AI-
powered production-grade automation with
Autopilot technology to make testing more
efficient and rewarding. Users can continuously
test virtually any technology, enabling teams to
build automations more quickly, execute with
precision, and proactively fix issues to keep
business operations running smoothly.

Testing and QA doesn’t have to
be a cost center. Turn it into an
enterprise-wide value driver for
your business today.

Explore UiPath Test Suite

Page 16About UiPath

The UiPath Business Automation Platform is a leading, easy-to-
use, scalable, and open platform that allows everyone—from
automation developers and testers to citizen developers and
business users— to work alongside software robots and achieve
better business outcomes.
Sources:
A Leader in the 2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant for RPA
Get the report

With UI-based and API-based RPA at its core, UiPath Test Suite
supports testing more than 190 technologies, from legacy systems
to mobile applications and devices, as well as virtualized systems
with UiPath AI Computer Vision technology.
A Forrester Wave Leader for Robotic Process
Automation, Q1 2021
Get the report

For more information, visit uipath.com
Everest Group Robotic Process Automation Products PEAK
Matrix® Leader 2022
Get the report

© UiPath, Inc. 2024. All rights reserved.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors
with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as
statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Robotic Process Automation, by Saikat Ray, Arthur Villa, Melanie Alexander, Keith Guttridge, Andy Wang, Paul
Vincent, 25 July, 2022.
Debuted as Leader in IDC MarketScape for Worldwide
Cloud Testing Vendors 2022
Get the report

Page 17© UiPath, Inc. 2024